# 101210495_1_DELIVHORIZON — 35/39 template questions matched


## 1. Data Summary

[DS-1] Will you re-use any existing data and what will you re-use it for? State the reasons if re-use of any existing data has been considered but discarded.
  -> (match 0.85) if re-use of any existing data has been considered but discarded.
OPALS will build on existing open-source data such as code, algorithms, Machine
Learning (ML) models, datasets for ML training, and measurements (e.g., time and/or
energy measurements, predictions and measurements about carbon footprint of
workloads). This data will be used in order to evaluate OPALS’s research outcomes
and/or to provide insights on research questions that are relevant to OPALS’s vision.

[DS-2] What types and formats of data will the project generate or re-use?
  -> (match 1.0) The different types and formats of data are provided in the list below:
▪ Algorithms (e.g., in the format of pseudo-algorithms)
▪ Code (e.g., in the format of Python scripts)
▪ ML models (e.g., encoded in a Python script)
▪ Performance measurements (e.g., in the format of seconds for time
measurements)
▪ Predictions about carbon intensity of geographic areas or carbon footprints of
workloads
▪ Workload logs

[DS-3] What is the purpose of the data generation or re-use and its relation to the objectives of the project?
  -> (match 1.0) Data that is either generated or re-used (e.g., with provenance of openly available
datasets) will be used in the evaluation of optimization algorithms that will be derived
from OPALS. Moreover, such data will be used for comparison of proposed methods
with other state-of-the-art methods. Finally, the data will be used, when necessary, to
derive insights on the research questions at hand.

[DS-4] What is the expected size of the data that you intend to generate or re-use?
  -> (match 1.0) Initial estimations on the size of the data are within the following orders of magnitude:
▪ Algorithms: less than 500 megabytes
▪ Code: less than 500 megabytes
▪ ML models and datasets for training: less than 30 gigabytes
▪ Performance measurements: less than 5 gigabytes
3
OPALS
Grant Agreement No 101210495
▪ Predictions about carbon intensity of geographic areas or carbon footprints of
workloads: less than 20 gigabytes
▪ Workload logs: less than 10 gigabytes

[DS-5] What is the origin/provenance of the data, either generated or re-used?
  -> (match 1.0) Data that is re-used will come from open-source datasets, datasets generated by
collaborators, datasets of the host organization (TID), and/or research outputs. All
credits regarding  third-party datasets and/or research outputs will be clearly identified.
Generated data will be developed by the fellow and her collaborators (when
applicable).

[DS-6] To whom might your data be useful ('data utility'), outside your project?
  -> (match 1.0) The data will be useful for dissemination, communication, and exploitation activities.
Generated data such as algorithms and code can be of benefit for the scientific
community at large, as they will provide relevant benchmarks for future research as
well as the basis for checking the reproducibility of the produced scientific results.


## 2.1 Findable

[F-1] Will data be identified by a persistent identifier?
  -> (match 0.59) Research data and outputs that are made available will be deposited and described in
public data repositories (e.g., Github for code, Arxiv or Zenodo for scientific reports or
papers, etc.) that can attribute persistent unique identifiers to the deposited items.

[F-2] Will rich metadata be provided to allow discovery? What metadata will be created? What disciplinary or general standards will be followed?
  -> (match 0.76) metadata will be created and how.
Metadata will be provided to allow discovery and increase the reuse potential. In
particular, metadata will describe the contents of the data in question to ensure the
reusability of this data. These will follow the standards associated with the different
platforms (e.g., Zenodo adheres to the metadata standards set by DataCite 2 ). Metadata
will include a collection of information, namely the title, author, description, file size
2 DataCite metadata schema: https://schema.datacite.org .
4
OPALS
Grant Agreement No 101210495
and format), type, publication date, keywords, access rights, license, digital object
identifier, related identifiers, and grant reference.

[F-3] Will search keywords be provided in the metadata to optimize the possibility for discovery and then potential re-use?
  -> (match 1.0) Yes.

[F-4] Will metadata be offered in such a way that it can be harvested and indexed?
  -> (match 1.0) Yes.


## 2.2 Accessible

[A-1] Will the data be deposited in a trusted repository?
  -> (match 0.73) Code and other data that will be made openly available will be deposited in well-known
repositories such as Github, while reports, publications, and other scientific results will
be made available on platforms such as Arxiv or Zenodo.

[A-2] Have you explored appropriate arrangements with the identified repository where your data will be deposited?
  -> (match 1.0) Github is an open-source software development platform used widely. Arxiv and
Zenodo are also free to use.

[A-3] Does the repository ensure that the data is assigned an identifier? Will the repository resolve the identifier to a digital object?
  -> (match 1.0) Yes.

[A-4] Will all data be made openly available? If certain datasets cannot be shared (or need to be shared under restricted access conditions), explain why.
  -> NOT FOUND

[A-5] If an embargo is applied to give time to publish or seek protection of the intellectual property, specify why and how long this will apply.
  -> (match 1.0) intellectual property (e.g. patents), specify why and how long this will apply,
bearing in mind that research data should be made available as soon as possible.
Embargos related to publications will align with the requirements of the venues,
especially double-blind venues. Such embargos typically last 2-6 months, which is the
average duration of the reviewing process. Embargos related to patents will align with
patent laws and the internal patent policy of the host organization (TID). The duration of
6
OPALS
Grant Agreement No 101210495
such embargos may vary but is typically 6-12 months. Repositories in Github can either
be private or public. When an output is considered mature, has been evaluated and not
subject to the restrictions described above, the repository will be made public and
available to the general community. Outside of these embargos, technical results such
as algorithms or other research outputs will be made publicly available as soon as they
are mature.

[A-6] Will the data be accessible through a free and standardized access protocol?
  -> (match 1.0) Public data will be deposited in well-known data platforms. Github and platforms like
Arxiv and Zenodo offer free access through a standardized access protocol.

[A-7] If there are restrictions on use, how will access be provided to the data, both during and after the end of the project?
  -> (match 1.0) In the case of data classified as restricted, data sharing agreements will be put in place
to control access to this data. Such agreements will be tailored to specific restrictions
(e.g., due to IP protection or legal issues).

[A-8] How will the identity of the person accessing the data be ascertained?
  -> (match 1.0) Public repositories, by their nature, are accessible to everyone without the need for
authentication. In case of restricted data, this will be determined by the data sharing
agreement in place.

[A-9] Is there a need for a data access committee (e.g. to evaluate/approve access requests to personal/sensitive data)?
  -> (match 1.0) At this moment, this is not necessary.

[A-10] Will metadata be made openly available and licensed under a public domain dedication CC0, as per the Grant Agreement? Will metadata contain information to enable the user to access the data?
  -> (match 0.91) Yes.

[A-11] How long will the data remain available and findable? Will metadata be guaranteed to remain available after data is no longer available?
  -> (match 1.0) Data that will be made publicly available will remain available and findable for the
duration of the project but also at least five years after its end. This will be the case for
the metadata of restricted or confidential data.
7
OPALS
Grant Agreement No 101210495

[A-12] Will documentation or reference about any software be needed to access or read the data be included? Will it be possible to include the relevant software (e.g. in open source code)?
  -> (match 1.0) Yes, explicit reference will be provided. In principle, only open source software will be
used in the generated code, if not, an open source alternative will be provided.


## 2.3 Interoperable

[I-1] What data and metadata vocabularies, standards, formats or methodologies will you follow to make your data interoperable to allow data exchange and re-use within and across disciplines?
  -> (match 0.77) The data produced within OPALS will be interoperable for any research efforts after the
project’s end date. This will be achieved by always using open or globally used data
formats for data exchange (with all formats being clearly documented in the metadata).
The concept of interoperable data demands that both data and metadata must be
machine-readable and that consistent terminology is used, principles that will be
adopted by the project.

[I-2] Will you follow community-endorsed interoperability best practices? Which ones?
  -> NOT FOUND

[I-3] In case it is unavoidable that you use uncommon or generate project specific ontologies or vocabularies, will you provide mappings to more commonly used ontologies? Will you openly publish the generated ontologies or vocabularies to allow reusing, refining or extending them?
  -> (match 1.0) Yes.

[I-4] Will your data include qualified references to other data (e.g. other data from your project, or datasets from previous research)?
  -> (match 1.0) Yes.


## 2.4 Reusable

[R-1] How will you provide documentation needed to validate data analysis and facilitate data re-use (e.g. readme files with information on methodology, codebooks, data cleaning, analyses, variable definitions, units of measurement, etc.)?
  -> (match 0.76) facilitate data re-use (e.g. readme files with information on methodology,
codebooks, data cleaning, analyses, variable definitions, units of measurement,

[R-2] Will your data be made freely available in the public domain to permit the widest re-use possible? Will your data be licensed using standard reuse licenses, in line with the obligations set out in the Grant Agreement?
  -> (match 1.0) Data that is classified as public within this project, as well as the scientific outcomes
of the project will become freely available in the public domain under standard licenses
(e.g., MIT license for code) respecting the common practices of the scientific
community. If an article is published at a venue that does not provide free access (i.e.,
under IEEE editor), an open source version of the paper will be available on platforms
such as Arxiv or Zenodo.

[R-3] Will the data produced in the project be useable by third parties, in particular after the end of the project?
  -> (match 1.0) Data that is classified as public will remain available and findable for the duration of
the project but also at least five years after its end.

[R-4] Will the provenance of the data be well-documented using the appropriate standards?
  -> (match 0.92) Data and research outputs will be described using standard descriptive metadata.
Describe all relevant data quality assurance processes.
Any generated data will be cleaned, validated, monitored, and thoroughly described
through metadata. These steps will ensure data quality.

[R-5] Describe all relevant data quality assurance processes.
  -> NOT FOUND


## 3. Other research outputs

[OUT-1] Will the project generate other research outputs (such as software, workflows, protocols, models, etc.) and how will they be managed, shared and made re-usable in line with the FAIR principles?
  -> NOT FOUND


## 4. Allocation of resources

[RES-1] What will the costs be for making data or other research outputs FAIR in your project (e.g. direct and indirect costs related to storage, archiving, re-use, security, etc.)? How will these be covered?
  -> (match 0.75) project (e.g. direct and indirect costs related to storage, archiving, re-use, security,

[RES-2] Who will be responsible for data management in your project?
  -> (match 1.0) The fellow and the host organization at large.

[RES-3] How will long term preservation be ensured? Discuss the necessary resources to accomplish this (costs and potential value, who decides and how, what data will be kept and for how long)?
  -> (match 1.0) In principle, the platforms that are going to be used are free and will remain free,
therefore, no additional resources will be needed.


## 5. Data security

[SEC-1] What provisions are or will be in place for data security (including data recovery as well as secure storage/archiving and transfer of sensitive data)? Will the data be safely stored in trusted repositories for long term preservation and curation?
  -> (match 0.97) Data will be stored in the previously identified repositories that will ensure long-term
preservation. Standard back-up policies will be followed. As a minimum security
measure, any data will be also stored at servers of the host institution.
For any data that contains sensitive or proprietary information:
▪ Access will be controlled through appropriate authentication mechanisms
▪ Data sharing agreements will be established with clear terms of use
▪ Secure transfer protocols will be used.
10
OPALS
Grant Agreement No 101210495


## 6. Ethics

[ETH-1] Are there, or could there be, any ethics or legal issues that can have an impact on data sharing?
  -> (match 0.55) Description of the Action (DoA).
In addition to personal data considerations, the project will address:
▪ Intellectual property rights of third parties whose data or tools are used
▪ Contractual obligations arising from collaborations
▪ Commercial sensitivity of data that might affect competitive positions
▪ Proper attribution and licensing compliance for all reused data.

[ETH-2] Will informed consent for data sharing and long term preservation be included in questionnaires dealing with personal data?
  -> (match 1.0) At this stage, there is no provision for usage of personal data (such as survey answers,
etc.). In the case where this changes, the current document will be updated. In any
case, the fellow and the host institution are committed to compliance with the
Regulation Establishing Horizon 2020, Art. 19 "Ethical principles”, Charter of
Fundamental Rights of the European Union, the European Convention on Human
Rights and the General Data Protection Regulation (Directive 2016/679) as well as
principles ensuring the respect of human dignity, fair distribution of research benefits
while protecting the values, rights and interests of the research participants.


## 7. Other issues

[OTH-1] Do you, or will you, make use of other national/funder/sectorial/departmental procedures for data management? If yes, which ones (please list and briefly describe them)?
  -> (match 0.96) No other data management procedures except for the ones mentioned above are
planned to be used.

